Charter proposal for Green Energy Efficiency Network (GREEN)

Background and Motivation

As the imperative to improve energy efficiency gains momentum (e.g., ITU-T SG5 has been tasked with develop 
of energy efficiency metrics, KPI, ETSI TCEE works on environmental efficiency related standards covering 
server, data storage, network equipments), network operators increasingly focus on understanding energy 
usage across links, nodes and devices within their networks. 

Green networking encompasses deploying and managing network infrastructures to reduce energy consumption. 
This will involve technologies to monitor energy consumption, use energy efficiency strategies to investigate
energy saving potential and evaluate the effectiveness of energy saving polices and measures based on energy 
saving result visibility, energy consumption visibility in network operations.

RFC 6988 set out crucial requirements and guidelines for monitoring and managing energy usage in network devices, 
offering both prerequisites and practical implementation scenarios. More recently, RFC 9547 highlighted the need 
of further work on metrics, measurements, ability to slow down and sleep devices or part of them, etc. However, 
there is no consistent view for terminologies to categorize various type of metrics and measurements.

In addition, the absence of  standardized data format for measuring, reporting, and controlling energy consumption
across diverse network setups remains a significant challenge. Therefore, new models and methodologies are required to 
optimize energy efficiency across the network.


Goals and Scope

GREEN WG is chartered to provide the following short term deliverables:
   o Well Terms and definitions related to energy management related metrics. Where possible, terms and definitions 
     existing in prior RFCs will be reused.

   o A YANG model for component-level/device-level/network-level visibility of power consumption and configuration 
     of energy saving features.

The work builds upon the energy consumption observability and energy saving management in the EMAN framework,
and upon YANG models developed in the IVY WG, hardware YANG model developed in NETMOD WG, as well as other work 
in the NMRG.  The GREEN WG, will combine all these concrete approaches systematically so as to evolve energy 
efficiency in a clear and coherent manner.

The GREEN WG will prioritize definitions of the following factors:
   o port transceiver power information (optical power, status, etc.)
   o port group power information (power, status, etc.)
   o board power information (Volt, Ampere, Watt, temperature, status, etc.)
   o chassis power information (available volume, Watt, status, etc.)
   o power supply information (type, status, redundancy manner, quantities, etc.)
   o fan information (status, speed, tuning manner, etc.)
   o energy consumption levels (basic, standard, deep, etc.)
   o energy efficiency ratios (device, network, etc.)

Out of Scope
Areas that will not be considered as part of the initial short-term tasks of the working group:
O Routing protocols and energy aware routing algorithms considering green energy factors 
  are far from mature and are not in scope for this WG. 

o Framework for power metric collection and aggregation since this related to protocol work.

O Benchmarking methodology for power consumption in networking devices belongs in the BMWG, 
  and is not in scope for this WG.

O Specification of green-oriented Network Quality Analysis (NQA) techniques to understand 
  the impact of energy efficiency optimization on service quality., such as ICMP extensions 
  for collection of environmental information.

O network equipment sustainability metrics such carbon omission, environmental impacts related metrics 
  throughout the life cycle of the network device based on such as circular design strategies and 
  environmental footprint need to be further investigated in e-impact program considering
  practices in ITU-T SG5 and ETSI TCEE, so that it's not in the scope of this charter.

Work Items

Energy metric definitions and terms
   o Candidate documents: EMAN Framework and Requirements related RFCs.

YANG model for power consumption observability and energy saving management.
   o Candidate documents: draft-li-ivy-power; draft-cwbgp-ivy-energy-saving-management; draft-petra-path-energy-api

Dependencies and Liaisons
The GREEN Energy working group will closely collaborate with:
Other IETF Working Groups that address topics related to energy consumption observability and energy efficiency
management, such as IVY, OPSAWG, BMWG, NETMOD WG,IPPM WG.
Other IRTF Research Groups that provide research inputs and reviews, including PANRG, NMRG.
Due to the overlap between IETF and ITU-T SG5/ETSI TCEE, mainly related to benchmarking methodologies, the GREEN
WG will liaise with ITU-T and ETSI for collaboration and consultation,as follows:
   o The European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), particularly with regard to the TCEE (Technical
     Committee of Environment Engineering).
   o The International Telecommunication Union (ITU), particularly with regard to ITU-T-SG-5.
